Everlight?
Everlight. it-it's me.
Pike.
If I've ever needed you. it's now.
Pike Trickfoot.
I felt weak the moment
we entered the Hells.
I-I need to know you're still...
Child.
redemption does not exist
in the realm of the damned.
The Hells of Despath are forbidden.
But why?
If we find Zerxus.
we'll-we'll get the vestige we need.
Your soul is precious.
There are those in Hell who would use it
for wicked aims.
Ignore my words
and you will find yourself alone.
What does that mean?
Everlight?
Wait! Please!
Pike...
Pike?
I was calling your name.
Oh. I-I was just...
making sure we're being looked out for.
Oh. Your goddess got our backs?
Yeah.
Sure does.
Good.
'Cause to pull this off...
we're gonna need
all kinds of miracles.
There it is.
The City of Dis.
Um. okay.
how are we gonna do this?
Everyone down there is either a demon
or is getting eaten by one.
Well. we certainly don't look
like we belong in Hell.
Unless we did.
Little man?
Huh? Oh. right.
Whoa.
Fuck yes.
Bigger antlers.
Wha... A bunny? Come on!
Hey. just kidding.
Just kidding. buddy.
How's this feel?
Wicked.
Pike.
Come.
Uh. you okay?
Those souls...
I wish I could help them.
Maybe Keyleth was right.
Is going through Hell worth it
for one vestige?
You heard Raishan.
We'll never defeat Thordak without it.
Everything about this place
just feels wrong.
Like being here is a sin.
I don't think we can turn back.
Hey. it's gonna be okay. buddies.
Hell ain't such a bad place.
I mean. lots of people
have told me to go here.
We need to move. people.
Scanlan's spell won't last forever.
Forgive me.
You there.
You don't look familiar.
Where are you going?
Oh.
Um. the fallen soul
of Zerxus Ilerez
owes us a debt.
And we plan on collecting.
Really?
You lot are bold enough to see him?
The fuck?
Hmm.
Very well.
Ugh. that was gross.
Order up!
Who's next. then?
You smell... different.
Oh. uh. we haven't bathed
in a few thousand years.
Um. excu...
Excuse me.
Do you know where we can find
the Brass Skull?
We're looking for someone named Zerxus.
They were scared of his name.
Find me.
Let's get moving.
Don't want to be here
longer than we have to.
Well. at least Team Draconia
is having a nice.
quiet time in the snow.
I still maintain it would have
been safer to drill our way out.
Yes. but my way was cooler.
I could have made it cool.
Kima? Can you hear me?
Kima!
She can't be far.
What do you want to do?
I'm going to tear
that fucking dragon to pieces.
Whoa. Pike.
You look like hell. even for a demon.
I think I'll wait here a sec.
You guys keep searching.
It-It's fine. I-I'll be okay.
Spread out. Don't go too far. though.
Don't like the way
these creatures are looking at us.
All this evil.
Maybe the Everlight was right.
We shouldn't be here.
It-It's all right.
I... I won't hurt you.
I only want to help.
Please.
Redeem this woman
with your healing light.
Pike!
What's happening?
Hurts my brain!
Shit. Scanlan. the spell?
I can't concentrate
with all this screaming!
Mortals.
Fresh blood.
We can't stay here.
Don't need to ask me twice.
Gotta move. Pikey.
Shit.
Where is this fucking Brass Skull?
We can't outrun an entire city.
We gotta get back to the portal.
Not without the armor.
They got eyes in the sky.
What are we doing?
This way.
Guys. down there.
Yes! Good eyes. buddies!
Get ready to jump!
Fuck me. it's gonna be close!
Enter.
Thanks for helping us.
I-I hope?
This way.
What is this place?
Whoa.
Uh. neat trick?
Vox Machina.
You certainly know
how to make an entrance.
How did you know we were coming?
"Speak of the devil
and he shall appear."
The rules of this realm are... unique.
I'd urge caution
before uttering further names.
You were the presence I felt.
W-Why did you reach out to me?
The real question is
what is a priest
of the Everlight doing here?
We were sent by J'mon Sa Ord.
They left something with you.
The Plate of the Dawnmartyr?
Not left. Lost.
What do you mean. "lost"?
Every decade or so. J'mon comes to test
their rather poor luck at my table.
They shouldn't have wagered
such an artifact. but fair's fair.
I assume you have something
to exchange for it?
I know you didn't venture into Hell
with no more than wishful thinking.
Well. what sort of stuff
does a devil dude want? Gold?
For a vestige?
No. you'd have to
make an exquisite offer.
Or wager.
Care for a game of chance?
If we win. we get the Plate.
And if I win.
you stay as my guest.
Indefinitely.
Pike. you can't. He'll cheat.
Now. now.
Rules are what separates Despath
from the truly miserable
planes of existence like yours.
No cheating allowed.
Okay. What's the game?
Uh. what the...
Huh?
- Huh?
- Pike?
Have a seat.
A contract?
To ensure you don't get cold feet.
Are they...
Safe. but silenced.
So the game remains fair.
Shall we?
Such pure blood.
Quite special. really.
The game is "Five Skulls."
Each player has five cards.
consisting of four red
and a single black skull.
Once dealt. you may not move your cards
nor touch your opponent's.
Your goal is to find my black skull
before I find yours.
How?
On each turn you may ask your opponent
any question to help locate it.
However. you must answer
all questions truthfully
or incur a steep penalty.
Like I said. we have rules down here.
Damn. they got some
plush chairs in this bitch.
I can't believe she's doing this.
Hey. if anyone can see through
a devil's scheme.
it's Trickfoot.
Going first obviously
has its advantages.
As you are my guest.
you may do the honors.
First question is yours.
Okay. let's whittle this down.
Is your black skull to the right
or left of your middle card?
You can't feel the presence
of the Everlight.
Your redeemer isn't here. is she?
That wasn't my question.
To the right.
On the end.
That's your card.
Sadly. no.
Though I think I learned more
that round than you did.
After all. everyone has a tell.
If you dig deep enough.
Aren't you going to ask me something?
Your friends rely on you.
You must take pride
in always being there to save them.
To redeem them.
This is no card game.
He knew exactly
who he wanted to play with.
I'm still tryin' to
figure out the rules.
Tell me. holy one.
were you given a choice? A path to walk?
W-What?
"We do not choose..."
"...any path can be a holy one..."
"...so long as one
walks it with truth."
Yes... I-I was given a choice.
Turns out the choice was a lie.
Both paths led to the same end.
I once was given a similar choice.
It cost me my family.
My god betrayed me. as yours will. too.
No. You're trying to get in my head.
It's not gonna work.
Oh. I already have what I need.
You gave yourself away before.
Your eyes. Your black card?
Second from your left.
- No!
- Buddies!
This is bullshit!
Changing the subject like that?
Y-You're cheating!
How? All the answers were truthful.
Contract or no. this is a farce.
Needle-dick is right.
I ain't watchin' this no more!
Wait. maybe you shouldn't...
Stupid comfortable chair!
Pike Trickfoot. you are now
bound to this sanctum
and the service of the Fallen Knight
for eternity.
Wait. I-I... Please.
You have to give me another chance.
What else might you have
to offer at this point?
What? She can't!
A meaningful wager. indeed.
Alas. I have no use for it.
For the Plate of the Dawnmartyr.
I will require something
more substantial...
The souls of your friends.
No. not them. I can't.
Isn't your faith strong enough?
Fine.
One round. Winner takes all.
Wait. Are we the ante?
Sure feels like it.
Is she crazy?
Um. Pikey?
I can see why the Everlight favors you.
You're as careless
with those close to you
as you are yourself.
But this time. I'll go first.
My turn. my question.
There's something
different about you. Pike.
You're special.
Have you ever wondered
if the Everlight needs you...
more than you need her?
Never crossed my mind.
Two cards?
Lying to yourself.
Goodness. that's a new one.
That's not fair!
The truth rarely is.
You've made it easier for me.
Reveal the card on my right.
Pity. Your turn.
Okay. cut the shit.
Which card is your black skull?
Interesting approach.
Since I cannot lie. I'll tell you.
It's the one in my hand.
Far left.
Two cards. What to ask next.
Ah. I've got it.
Do you ever wonder
if your life would be better
without the Everlight?
Yes.
Doesn't sound very "faithful" to me.
Your left card.
Looks like the game is almost over.
Oh. shit.
Before you finish me off.
do me one favor.
If you're keeping me here for eternity.
I think I deserve to know who you are.
Who you were.
And why you chose me.
Very well.
Treat this as a last indulgence.
I come from a time a thousand years ago.
when gods walked amongst mortals.
And the world was ruled by magic.
Like you. I protected
my home as First Knight.
a member of the Brass Ring.
a group similar to yours.
And also like you.
I assumed the best in them.
I was blind as my friends condemned
our civilization with their curiosity.
Their hubris.
You mean... the Calamity?
The gods set to war upon Exandria.
and in the chaos I found myself
face-to-face
with the Lord of Torment himself.
But instead of destroying me.
he gave me a choice.
Die with the rest or join him.
and spare my family.
I thought if I had enough time.
I could reach him. save him.
tame his turbulent heart.
For my folly. I watched
my husband and son
fade with the rigors of time.
losing even the memory of me.
As if I never existed at all.
You trusted a Betrayer?
Of course I did.
Just like you foolishly trust
your Everlight.
But there is no difference
between the gods above and below.
They all lie!
I'm sorry for all you've lost.
But my friends aren't like that.
And neither is my god.
Give it time.
Now. we have a game to finish.
And you have a question to ask.
Okay. I think I have it.
Do you wish your family was here?
What?
You chose this existence
to spare your husband and child.
You say you loved them.
but all I hear is regret.
So. do you want them
with you in this nightmare?
Or is that too selfish?
I. uh...
Answer my question.
Do you wish they were here.
suffering with you?
- No. I...
- Answer me!
Of course not!
I'm not even sure
you knew you were lying.
No...
And now my choice is a lot simpler.
After all. everyone has a tell
if you dig deep enough.
That one.
Well played. Pike Trickfoot.
That was more devious than I expected.
We all have blind spots.
Even you.
It's rare for me to lose in my domain.
However. I accept defeat.
Whoa.
Yeah. buddies! Look at that!
Ah. thank the gods.
So... guess the Everlight
came through. huh?
Uh. yeah. Yeah.
Aww. only Pike gets a souvenir?
I won't forget your story.
Thank you for losing graciously.
I won't forget yours.
Okay. Anyone else ready
to get the fuck out of here?
So say we all.
Here. take this. It bears my mark.
You'll need it
to get safely through Despath.
Yenk. show them the door.
And please. give J'mon my best.
She has no idea what courses
through her veins.
No matter. the seed of doubt
has been planted
and will fill her heart with vengeance.
as we watch it grow.
Your orders?
Leave her. Kill the rest.
We are his blood.
The time for his ascension draws near.
Whew. Getting out of here is gonna be
way easier than getting in.
Good. 'cause I can't eat any more bugs.
Oh. what are the chances
that isn't for us?
Hmm. I say. 50-30?
Vox Machina!
I hate math.
Chirp.